Speaker 1  0:00  
Meaning that we have no nodes. Each node has exactly the same set of weights. The only thing is the difference is actually the biases. So we have biases from minus one over to five. So we calculate them. So it turns out this is going to be what is this number? It's going to 1516, 1718, and 19. Just like the biases control how much you're gonna raise the output value or lower output value, and then this is how I will calculate by hand. You can kind of check the calculation, but of course it was. And then I can also show you, prove to you that you could carry out the calculation with also the measurement application in this way. Now we have weight plus bias and comma. Also, and on the input side we have the input plus the actual one. So that will give exactly the same number here. So 14 over to 20, and then when you change the biases, can real you will see that the numbers. They just move this number away. You can see the number is exactly the same. Okay, this this this correct. But if I say change to zero, you can see how the number has started to jump. So you can use this bias to control the number where the numbers goes. So let's go back to minus one, and then again over here we'll do transpose Of the input, okay, and then transpose of the output. So the output layout in this way, back to a graphical model, and when we look at the math, so the canonical form when you add linear layer, you define linear as y as output equals the weight times the input plus a bias, which is so. In this case, this is actually you can see this is actually a vector. This is also a vector, but this is actually a scalar. But usually, you there is there's some simple convention. But for people who are learning this for first time, sometimes kind of hard to see that W is actually. So sometimes you just you hit the bold, really bold form, just so that you can distinguish them between the constant, like kind of like this. You can also write in this way, and this, if you rewrite this, is it's going to be looks like W. Okay, this is W, and then her horizontal concat is B. You can see like this, and then over here is X as a vertical column vector, and add a little one here. Okay, so these are the equivalent. So that um, so that's why I'm trying to demonstrate that there's a this extra one give you a this beautiful way to just use one matching application while being to take care of this extra b. So that's bias. Next we're gonna move to batch. So in in this case, what in the previous cases when we look at x, we only provide only just one one input vectors, so 121. What if we provide another input, the batch size of two, another input is 212. Where do we put it to one two? So here, we are going to look at the similar one three to four node. This part is why we always saw before, and it turns out to process another batch where we will put 212 is actually right here in square 212, and then so previously when we process one node we use this weights and bias and we select just one input over here right so how do we apply to the second node? You can probably guess right now what I can do right is actually just go back to edit my batch notification, and I'm going to just drag this to the second node, and so this is where you become clear to you that I cannot do this. Maybe just I have deleted this. I did this. I can do one more time. Okay, I can just drag this to the next one. So this is when you realize for a second feature in a batch, it shares. It just uses the same set of weight and biases. It doesn't introduce a new set of weights. So so when you run batch processing, process multiple inputs. If you look at a graphical model, we don't. So one common misconception is that people thought, oh, we're just gonna add another set of nodes. No, actually, you don't add another set. No, instead, you just run more data into the same set of input nodes and output nodes. So that's why I put over here now. It becomes it doesn't make sense why I do this exercise because I want to show you that to for to run a batch into your network, you will put the transpose

Speaker 1  4:53  
of your input mesh just as is while leaving everything else the same. So here we're gonna get the same output transpose, and then in this case we increase this increase this part which is the input, and then we have a activation output. They grow in this way, but we do not we do not grow the node just because we have more data. Okay, so the same thing when you can actually grow from two to like 100 to 1000, it's the same idea. We just don't grow nodes. We use we you have them to share this exactly the same set of weights. So let's try another example with batch size. Now you can see the difference. Now so we have another row. So we just do another three or one over here, and here is this operation exactly the same measurement equation. A select a bit more wave and biases. I mean, sorry, feature and this part is the same transpose for take by improve over here. Kind of like this way and transpose and while holding the graphical model exactly exactly the same. Okay, and next we're gonna add one more part to finish the entire the neural network layer, linear layer with activation. What does it mean by adding activation? So here I have this upper part is going to be the same. So so that's what maybe I will. What will do is I will just quickly implement this one more time. Measure multiplication, take weight and bias, and also my input x1, and that's what we do. And I'll just keep this. This is gonna be the same, so I'm not gonna bother repeating. But what we want to do is that now we kind of look at this this code. This is these are the result of taking a lot of dot product between every single pair. So this just just a review. This one is a result of taking this column vector and this row vector, and this is this is the that that is how we get this number. So and how about this one, minus 14 is the same column vector in your feature, but the the third set of weights and bias, which is your correspond to this node. Okay, the third node in your output. So activation function is the idea that we can introduce some non-linearity into your network, saying that well, most basic activation function is something really simple, saying and so it's called a ReLU, which we're gonna introduce ReLU. What ReLU does is that we look at all the things as negative. This is negative. We find three negative numbers, and just like knock them off, just set it to zero. So that's what what activation Redu really does. Just find all the negative numbers, just knock them off. Or the other way to think about is activate only for those who are zero, just above zero. So activate, activate, activate, activate, activate, activate, activate, activate. Deactivate, deactivate, deactivate. So that is the concept of activation, and value is the simplest one. Just like draw the line at zero and everything above, we keep everything below we just knock it off, deactivate. That's what it does. So there's a so in the the first is to use the building function is just call redo and and z so that is pretty simple so actually I'm the I could I am not kind of doing it but what I want to do

Speaker 1  8:42  
is to uh. Do I have it? I don't remember where that. So this is a building function, and then most people just stop right there. That just call Redu because was given to you by the PyTorch library. So they don't quite ask the question, "What does ReLU Redo? So here in this class, we're going to really go inside the black box to see what Reddit really does. So the first is first we could implement using very common implementation is take y equals z. This z over here max and z over zero. Compare every single value over here, and with zero. And if it's above zero, you can take the bigger one, which is positive value. If below zero, you take zero. So then everything stays zero. So to implement that, I'm going to use the. This is getting a bit harder. So we're gonna use the map function, functional programming. Take a map, which is select everything here because ReLU is applied to every single position. Then you tag the lambda function. I'm gonna do a resort, lambda. Okay, and then I'll take x and apply this function max x zero. Actually, maybe maybe match the parameter name. Let's call just call it z. So that max it matches my equation I wrote down on the left. So max z equals zero. Okay. All right. So if you do it right with matching parentheses. Now you can compare. Erase this one, so you can compare our hint result. We I circle these three to deactivate, and then these three are the one set to zero. So that's the effect. Everything else should be the same. And then so once we set this up, we can come back and kind of play with it. You can see that what if I continue to add more biases? So some of the things is going to be. So you can look at minus two over here. So I keep biases. Keep adding more biases value to it. Eventually, it goes above zero, and then this point is starting to let the signal pass through through activation, so this has become something like you can experiment with. So that's what activation does in compare this to. So later down down in this workbook, we're going to look at the visualization. So another way to implement this is I could use the in the torch tie torch can use square function. So this intuition matches the intuition better. That so I'm gonna show you how it does. So what I want to do is I want to still map all my input. I mean the result of my dot product or match multiplication here. All right. I'm gonna write lambda. You can look at over here at the top equation bar. See what I'm doing here? Oops, oops. Actually, let me redo this. Fix this. Okay. So z, and if z greater than zero, so I gotta just make it to be z, and then if not, it will be zero. So this this is the intuition of this reluct activation function. That's what I wanted to do, and you have the same effect of the max implementation I used earlier. So max is a lot more efficient to run, but they are thematically they are the same. I've used an if and else statement over here, and so you can compare these two different implementation. One is more like mathematical, like faithful to the intention of ReLU. The other one is most efficient for the hardware to compute. So this makes a lot more easier to compute. This doesn't involve a branching. Okay, so all right. So one, so there are two different ways to implement ReLU function give you the same result. When you put them together, so there's your complete linear layer. So this is what you have here. So another diagram you see often you have x1, x2, x3, and then over here you have this activation function kind of like this, and it become like this because you knock this off here, and you have write you write w y equals w x plus b. There's also B kind of internal, and here you have ReLU, Y, Z, sorry, Z. So this is another popular representation of neuron in this way. Another graphical model with mathematics together, but here you don't really. It's not clear how you actually multiply matrices and so on. All right. So this is where you, if you come this far, then you have pretty nailed the concept of linear layer. So if you are feel comfortable up to this point, can you type one to give a signal? They are sort of fine. Okay.

Speaker 1  13:38  
Okay. All right, and if you're not, feel free to review the recording and and just trying to implement some of the steps I implement show you. All right, so next step we're going to add a something in between. It's called a hidden layer. So to add hidden layer, so now we have three different nodes. We have 32421, So we would draw the edges kind of like this. This is a lot of edges to draw. Okay. And then four to one. So the graphical model looks this. And now we only care about the. This only care about the. The the the intermediate layer. So somehow I need to run a transformation over here, and then another activation and get my final number. So we had to figure out two set of weights: how many weights we need and how many biases. So one way I want to do it is that I could sort of remember the way I draw this guy line. So it tells me I need three here and one here, and this we want to have four different outputs. So so tell it tells us that this is how much we like to have for in terms of the height of these weight matrices. So you can draw them together. So you have you know that is the shape of the weights and bias. So what I will do is I fill some some numbers here. So let's just do random array. Let's get question mark. Get rid of this question mark first.

Speaker 1  15:16  
Okay. Let's get rid of question mark. So now you could just eyeball the size of this render array four and three plus one. I like to type this so I can remember what I mean. Three columns with my weights plus one was my biases. So this my random initial values of my for weighted biases. We have that. We can do a linear layer. Just will be simple matrix multiplication for take three a batch of three at the same time, just one multiple batch multiplication, and so and let's just do make it integer so it's easier for me to see. Let me do zero and three and integer true for now. Okay, let's do it slowly. Do you see this integer three zero to three and true, so I have this number. The reason I'm doing this is so I can pick any number to just verify my calculation. Just take this 177. is see we can get seven here. 121, and this one together. Okay, this is seven. So if you can see replicate seven one this two, and this is zero, and this is three, and this is two. So 232 is seven. So that well, it matches in two. Of course, it was done by machine calculation. Probably cannot be accurate. But feel good about yourself. You could have calculated seven by yourself as well now, right? Now make this activation. So right now, everything's positive. If we run ReLU, everything's still positive. It's not as interesting. So one way for me make me to purposely give them some negative value is I could just set away and biases the range to be more like minus three to three. So now I get some negative values. So when we get negative value, then we can actually visualize the effect already for the purpose of learning. You can see that. So let's remember we can do use map and take the entire array and do lambda z okay and then max and z and zero. Okay. So the reason why I like to use map here to give you just to show you right in your face that we are doing functional programming is mapping. So mapping means that you apply the same calculation for every single cell, and that is when eventually you go all the way down to GCP programming. When you heard this word, writing the kernel code. So kernel code pretty much is why you're writing this small function called like lambda function here. But you write this kernel function, you're able to assign just a very different thread. Like you can say, "Oh, I have a 16 different thread. I want to run like I would like to parallelize computation that can be all done at the same time, and then then just provide this lambda function, which is your kernel function. They can be just repeated over, copy over to all your thread, you all your core. You have 16 core. You can run this 16 times. So that is when this calculator become more. If can put it in front of face for your thinking about math, that will become useful later. And lastly, we want to transform back to one input. So what do we do? Do this one more time. One. We need 12345, We only one here, so we know the size of this weight matrix and biases now. So we're going to be array one over four. It has to be one and three and four plus one. So more more explicit. So we have this enough weight and bias, and eventually we do a match allocation. So can get this finish. So that's how we'll implement the this hidden layer, adding in between. I can see that the dimension changes two times. First is from three to four. Second from four to each dimensional change is it can be accomplished by a weight and bias matrix with appropriate dimensions. Lastly, next one I want to look at the different activation function. What do you want to add another activation function here?

Speaker 1  19:27  
So one of the when the neural network is invented, one application is for binary classification. So we like it to be more like zero and one. But then also we don't want the language just output of zero and one. We like to get more like probability, so you can draw a threshold that for your prediction. So you can see that with this function, the network we have. So the find this output z. The range is actually between infinite to by negative infinity to the positive infinity here, so it could be any number. So we would like to find a way to map this to between zero and one. So sigmoid function is what you you could apply to bring this z down to zero and one, and the equation for sigmoid is written as sigmoid z equals one over one plus the minus z, and so and then and let's try to implement that. So the one I can implement similarly using the map for here and do a lambda, lambda. Okay, then z, and then with that set it up, you can write the equation one over one plus exp minus z. Do one more, and one more. I still have one more. I have typo. Okay. All right. So you can see three is become 0.95, and nine it can saturate activation to one, and minus six is coming zero. So you can kind of play with it, consider effect. Adding bias, eventually everything is so big, and then everything just almost just one shape 20. We go the other direction minus one, and things become smaller, smaller, smaller, smaller. Eventually, everything is zero, but you never go negative. And there's probability that can help you to the classifier whether it gets closer to the prediction one, so just get back to minus one. I think minus one is what do I have? Get back to two. So

Speaker 1  21:47  
roughly, the intuition sigma function is around minus three and three. Is everything above three? It's almost like equal one. f2 below three minus 3f three is very very close to zero. So that's the contribution behind the activation. So two different activation right now. So in the internal layer, we tend to have this ReLU activation function. You chop the path off. You draw the line, chop path off below zero, and then at the end for output for your application. So you have a different activation function to just massage your value to the shape you want. Today we look at sigmoid function that gives you anything between zero and one. So over time we're gonna look at other activation function, for instance, softmax, tanh, and different things that were for different application. We'll look at data. But today we're just gonna introduce two radio and sigmoid to complete this. All right, and the last is the the fun part to actually visualize a neuron. So you might see this visualization before, but in the web, like there's a called neural network playground by Google. So pretty famous. But here I would like to walk you through how can use Excel to emulate the visualization, so you can really know the calculation under the under the under under the inside inside the black box. Okay, so here you've seen this form two. We're talking about 22222, kind of do map it out, and this activation here, two dimension one. So this is the network we have. So just roughly, we we are saying talking about this two and two and one network. It's already get an idea. So that's the network we're trying to visualize. All right, and so so we have two nodes. So we mean so two dimension x1 x2. So I can use 2d to represent this because of two. The only way I can map this out on a piece of paper or workbook like this is to use two dimensions, so we can use one x1 to be well this dimension over here, and x2 we map to this dimension. So have a color to show that blue is negative, and so this is the like a this the space. What the node really means in this space. So you can see it go from one side to the other side. Here, for the second note, what you see is from the bottom to the top. That's how this way, this this input the space looks like. So this is the field, two different field. What not? There's no meaning is being assigned to this field yet. That's what we're about to do. So we take any nodes over here. This minus three one. This is actually over here minus three and one here. So every input have 12345, batch of five input. Each one corresponds to a particular location in this space. So where is it? So this minus three and one is minus three and one is is here and minus three and one same location but a different readout because where you are but what we can see the effect of having this one and four and two is that we could use this space to combine them to get this number. So here I could do is that I would do the first weight is one here this one okay times I can use this and pump so it holds space so this is a weighted x1 and we have another one, is to be the weighty x2. So 12, I will go is I will do is I equal. I going to take the weight, which is four. It's kind of small for you to see. I wonder it's too small. Maybe I should use. Let's do 75, just so you can actually see this. Okay. So what we can do right now is I go equal sign. Come on, take this way and multiply with the entire space. So that means we it's still x and y orientation, but I kind of weigh them differently. And what's interesting is that when you combine them, so when I combine them, so we will be able to see that

Speaker 1  26:21  
and plus, okay. So we have this. We can see the. We can see there's a slope over here. Basically, we take. We are getting. We get a cross section here. So it's actually a slope, right? So like this slope. You can just pay attention. So this is slope. So this is actually 00. is around here, which is zero around here. So the slope kind of turn over into this way, and then we add a bias to this turn. Let's add a bias to this turn. We can go back up. Can I go back up to select? I can use my mouse to select my bias value, which is two over here. Oh, actually no. Let's do one more time. Let's go go back and I plus two of here, so I can add biases here. And once you do that, let me just zoom out a little bit so you can see a bit more. Maybe 60% So now you could see that's a live visualization of what the node does now. So if you took one, two, so you can see that the zero line start to move depending on where I put this biases number. Okay, so this is kind of live. Let me go back to two. Then we repeat the same calculation for the second node. Then we can see what the second node is going to see slightly differently weighted. So I'm going to go back to select here my first set of weight times what the x1 original space is. Go back over here. Okay, and w2 is the same thing. Go all the way here to select my weight, and then times the x2. Okay, all right. So I see something like this, similar horizontal or vertical line. But this is when I put the two things together, add them together, take this, and plus this, and palm. Excuse me. And then, so we have see a different line. And then let's go back to add plus bias. I will go. I now use. I have used my mouse to go. So like, come back to select this. Come back to actually. That's the limit. Here, I found it.

Speaker 1  28:42  
This is the weight I want to put. So this is a and doesn't see doesn't looks that much different. But if you can test with different value, you know this thing are shifting. So this the 00 line are shifting. All right. So let's put it back to two, and eventually, so this and then we add the activation function. That's when things become clear to you. Gonna see half of this area, all the blue one, going to be knocked off, deactivated. You can visually see this if I put the activation function here. So here I'm gonna implement my activation function. Remember the activation. I use a map. Now select my input, which is entire space, and then I put my lambda function. I use z, and then makes use this efficient implementation. So, okay, you can see that this now you can visually see that the effect of activation function. This area is just kind of knocked off by the execution function. All right, and then you again, if you go back to change your biases, you can see that the area they are activating are kind of move around too. So this one, I I could now I believe this equation exactly the same. So I go into copy and paste over here, so see the effect of here, so I have two area being knocked off. Eventually, the fun part is that we combine them to get the final output with the output layer. Output layer, we're going to take similar. I'm going to do a weight, weighted, okay, get the weight for the first weight times the this activation space, okay, and then there's only one node, so this will be the same, but I'm going to select the second weight and times the activation over here, okay, and then then we'll combine them and with the bias as well. So here is this. I'm going to select palm and add my second activation map on the earlier. Okay, and plus the bias. Now we know a bias I can do in one step, so two steps. So here, so this is the final result. You can see what you can see right now is that you have slightly kind of cute nonlinear shape because you are combining them now with these two two different two different lines when putting together is almost you can get something like this. It's this a result of that down the more complicated more richer representation because being able to combine two different activation map, and then eventually we like to map to a probability value. You can see that minus one is to 73. Can we change all this into probability value between zero and one? So I'm going to implement again my last sigmoid function. Select this palm, comma lambda z1 over one plus exp minus z. Okay, so I have an equation written up there to remind you what how to do this. Then you can see this this this one now. All right. So so that's the final result. Now, now I'm going to do zoom out a little bit to allow you to see at the high level. So what we just did is to basically draw. Let's draw the graphical model on top. So what we did is that we take two nodes. Okay, going back to the beginning of the lecture. So two nodes, first layer, and then we have two output nodes in the mid mid middle layer. So I want to draw the line between them. So what I will do is I will basically draw this the weight. This is the second set of weight. You see, that is this w1 x1, w1 x2, w2 x2. But for a first first note, and then second note gonna go this way. Okay. So this very similar to how what how we're doing it. Combine them, and then eventually we have this one weighted by this one, and then this weighted by this one. I combine over here, and we have a sigmoid function over here, and get the final output over here. So there's a graphical model that also layer. I put another visualization layer you can actually play with, and so let's go back to, and then let's go to even smaller. To can I see maybe 10% 10% okay.

Speaker 1  33:38  
Then that's what, and for and for your practice, I like to use extend this example to to two to three to two network, and my my server is just freezing. I should probably get a new one. So, 10% cannot handle the 10% zoom. Anyway, so what I want wanted to show you before my machine crash is that you could trying to play with it, change all the parameters, any parameter, the biases, and you can see how the sam shape. Because another thing that you could do is you can flip the space around. Let me just get back to 25% This is stupid. Doesn't work too too well. So, for instance, what if for the second node here? Okay, this is my second node. It's very tiny, but this minus six and minus three, right? I'm gonna flip it just by adding minus weight to them. So minus three, minus three, minus six, minus three, and bias is very small. So you can see the blue and red sort of change now. So this, so the the area the side we knocked off is kind of on the opposite side, so that the neuron decided to flip the logic in the other way, and as a result, when you combine it, you start to get a completely different shape decision boundary over here. You can select this over and get this effect of selecting here there. So you can imagine as you have more nodes, every one of them going to slice your space in a certain way. So suppose we just this this one only sliced in two way. Okay. So if you have a three nodes, we can slice another way. Four nodes slide yet another way. So eventually you could you could even have a have a different zone sliding this way, another node slide this way to combine them. So having more nodes, you could get to select different subspace with your space code, the manifold. So the more technical term, these are the manifold within a higher dimensional space. Here, what I talk about two dimensional space, but you could extend this to any dimension. Basically, what a neuron does is that you slice that space into two. The activation is going to just set zero to one side and just keep the other side. You have enough of those. You can combine them into a really interesting shape inside your space, and hopefully those are the the the prediction you want to make too. What if inside that is a decision you want to make for particular the learning task. Okay, so it's

Speaker 1  36:32  
all I have today, and you you hope you could follow along and to apply what you learn to a slightly harder two by three to one network, and then also we have some more practices. There's a bit more practice than before, but if you follow along, you already have ways through the exercise. If you got stuck somewhere earlier, you feel free just like watch the video and you can catch up. And this is the foundation against foundation of the linear, the linear layer is a foundation of neural network development track. Then next week we're going to talk about how we can stag many of them become a multi-layer perceptron. They keep pushing into recurrent neural network and to all the way to transformer and so on. Okay, and so I have a question from Evan about do you have submit? No, you don't have to submit per se, because we're gonna just take a snapshot of your workbook by the deadlines. We'll have that, and we have auto grader to look at what you have done. And we have a little hiccup for people who used to be sections o2, and then so for some reason overnight you all got shipped to sections o3, and o3 didn't exist. It all sudden it's an update to that, and Canvas lost just wiped off your access, or got OIT to fix it. So for first couple, we don't worry about like being late to the assignment or so on. We just like gonna just let you do whatever it takes to catch up while we are trying to iron out the technical hiccup like this. All right, okay. Thank you for listening. Is we're getting much deeper than last week. Matrix application. So in one week you have gone from that product to match your application, but you really you feel like you're okay with this pace. Can you type one in the chat? I think it's confirmation bias. So of course you say why, but yeah, I just got a sense. Oh, cool! And so I yeah, so good, good to know. And so it's unfamiliar with lots of people because nobody really program in Excel, but I do because I think it's really good learning and teaching tool and research tool because you you won't have illusion you get the stuff because you don't have any library support you really have to know the stuff but then so hopefully you are a believer in this microposition and by the end of semester you you have built I was trying to just teach as much as I can from what I know how to use this to help with your research and to stay at the frontier of AI.

Speaker 1  39:12  
Okay, so well to hover over formula after you type that in. Okay, cool. All right, so that's that's good. So sometimes I'll make sure I give you a few seconds. But if you missed it, the you could go back to recording and you could pause that particular frame, and that'd be pretty helpful as well. You need to especially reviewing. So the little trick that I learned from my students in the previous semester as well. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  39:40  
but if you pay attention, hopefully you still do most of your work. Then you,

Speaker 1  39:45  
then you just have to study and review after the class. Okay, all right. Thank you so much, and I will see you on Wednesday. I know actually see you see you in the next lecture. See you on Friday for the lab. Okay, all right. Bye bye. Oh sorry, I had one more question.

Speaker 1  40:02  
Yes, please do. So let me just turn. If this, if this is a private question, I can turn on the recording. No, it's fine. Um, can you just go to hidden layer?

Unknown Speaker  40:11  
I didn't get the last um. The last row. So the the last one is a sigmoid function. So yeah, the the one before that.

Speaker 1  40:26  
The one before that, this is hidden layer part. So the one before that is. There we go. I I didn't get the one that's in front of the

Speaker 1  40:35  
one. You know, like the 0.50 point. I'm just copy that down really quick. Uh, yeah. So my mouse is refused to, my keyboard is not working anymore. But this I just my tab. Okay, here. So this is. I probably you mean by this one. So there are two places. Yes, you can see the formula at the top here of the screen. Of the screen, or sometimes the cursor is another formula as well. So what I can do is maybe I can make make this a bit bigger if there's a way to make it bigger, so it's more prominent. You know how to do it like this. Okay, all right. It's all recorded.

Speaker 1  41:21  
So one. one row and four columns plus one. Okay. All right. I'll see you next time. Okay. Bye bye. Yep. Have a good day.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
